Greetings, I’m Stephen Card. I’ve always been interested in technology throughout my life, but never quite figured out what I specialized in. Back in January 2022, I enrolled in the iDevOps program which was an excellent opportunity to make use of my interests in Linux and open source technologies. The program is divided up into two parts, with the first 10 weeks or so being guided through learning core technologies like GIT, Bash, Python, Docker, Kubernetes, Terraform, Ansible, and cloud service providers, AWS and Azure. An additional 17 weeks are spent applying those skills and technologies performing real devops tasks and projects. 

One of the most important concepts we learned at iDevOps, is the deductive problem solving method (the DPSM). This problem solving approach taught me how to adapt to and solve any engineering problem, by getting an overview of high level knowledge, breaking it down into steps, augmenting any missing knowledge I have through google, and then automating the process so we don’t do anything more than once manually. 

About halfway through the program, we began putting what we’ve learned in the classroom to work on open source projects. We’re assigned tasks via a JIRA board, all of them designed to contribute towards iDevOps’ open source catalog of reusable devops automations and templates. 

My earliest tasks in the program involved building Docker images. Following this, these images were deployed into a live AWS Kubernetes cluster, learning how to make templated deployment files, which can be easily reused. 

Furthering our understanding of cloud infrastructure, I learned how Terraform and Ansible can be used to deploy an entire environment using infrastructure as code. Most of my experience revolved around Azure this time, standing up blob storage, a data factory, and a Kubernetes cluster with terraform through a github actions pipeline. 

After building additional experience with Terraform, I learned more about pipelines and advanced automation. I made changes to several pipelines, enhancing their usability from automatic login to azure with a service principal to replacing input boxes with drop down menus to avoid user error. I then went and obtained my Terraform Associate certification through Hashicorp. I also intend to obtain my Certified Kubernetes Administrator certification.

The project that I am the most proud of is a kubernetes manifest generator which you can access at k8ssoftner.idevops.io The goal of this project was to generate a kubernetes manifest based entirely from a web UI. It sends a json payload to a python API which I wrote running in kubernetes. This API processes it dynamically and returns a fully formatted kubernetes deployment manifest file that can be immediately deployed to a cluster based on user inputted values. The hardest part of this task was to process the dynamic inputs like multiple secrets, ports, etc and render them in a valid fashion. 

Another larger project I worked on was called thoughts. It was a twitter-like platform where you could post your thoughts into a feed. It was built on Django, mysql, and redis. This project was special in that it took me from the initial creation of the project at the beginning, all the way through containerization, pipeline deployment, and unit testing. This entire overview gave me critical insight into how both developers and operations both work together in a project. 

I am no stranger to working with technology, a passion I’ve followed throughout my life and it is something I am known for by everyone who knows me. I’m excited to be able to finally work professionally with what I’ve loved since grade school, and I am certain that this extensive experience will serve not only myself but your company as well. 
